so I have to give you a disclaimer in
advance
um as I Was preparing this halaka as I
got to the death of I couldn't hold back
my tears and even though the like the
the ending of his life is such a painful
experience for me to even talk about
experience for me to even talk abou
so you know make it easy like even now I
feel distraught just thinking about it
feel distraught just thinking about i
and a lot of my thoughts are just you
know gauging towards that end but
know gauging towards that end bu
inshallah you know we're going to
continue off or start off with a
positive mode because the beginning of
his life
is just awe-inspiring as I you know we
learned from Allah these were regular
individuals these are individuals
specifically chose to inspire mankind
till the end and when you study their
lives you realize that these were not
lives you realize that these were no
regular human beings subhanallah so our
Imam for today that we're discussing is
the Imam of the Imam of Medina
and Imam Malik his full name was
and he was born in the year 93 of Hijra
and there is no difference to opinion uh
in terms of when he was born nor when he
died unlike Imam Allah
the year that he was born the year 93 it
the year that he was born the year 93 i
is the same year that the famous
companions
passed away in that same year now when
it comes to Imam Allah what made him
exclusive is that there is Allah
according to a lot of us a lot of
Scholars a foretailed prophecy about the
from the messenger of Allah about him
Allah is from the messenger of Allah
the day will come when people will
journey by camel long distances to seek
knowledge and find none more
knowledgeable than the scholar of Medina
right so the day will come when people
will journey by Karma long distances
to seek knowledge and they will find no
one more knowledgeable than the scholar
of Medina the great scholar of Hadith
they both said that this is referring to
him Allah now I want you to think about
him Allah now I want you to think abou
this these are contemporaries
died you know not to long into Imam
Malik's life but imagine the amount of
pressure that goes on to you that this
Hadith is a foretelling of you
and this is like you know when I think
about the Hadith
the Mahdi doesn't find out that he's
until much later on in his life right
until much later on in his life righ
he's an average human being until much
later on because I think if he found out
later on because I think if he found ou
from a very young age that he's the man
he's supposed to like rectify the
Affairs of this ummah imagine the amount
Affairs of this ummah imagine the amoun
of pressure that would be upon that
of pressure that would be upon tha
individual like we crack Under Pressure
like that is a huge amount of pressure
like particularly when you think of all
the problems happening across the Muslim
online specifically in like smaller
communities things that the vast
communities things that the vas
majority of the world doesn't even know
about that's a huge amount of pressure
and I look at this I think I was like
subhanallah imagine knowing this and you
have one or two options at that time
either you're like
I put my trust in Allah and I move
forward and I want to live up to this
Hadith
or you cowered away and you're like you
know this is too much pressure this is
referring to someone else why does it
referring to someone else why does i
have to be me why can't it be someone
else
he was up to the task and I think a lot
he was up to the task and I think a lo
of it had to do with Justice preparation
and this is the the amazing thing we
always need to understand
the Miracles of Allah
they don't happen for the most part just
they don't happen for the most part jus
like that right with Adam with is
and it was but for everything else
there's a gradual process like when you
look at the life of Muhammad sallallahu
alaihi wasallam before he becomes a
prophet there is this huge Journey that
prophet there is this huge Journey tha
he's going through of being the truthful
one the generous one takes cares of the
orphans stands up for the oppressed in
the weak and then he becomes the prophet
the weak and then he becomes the prophe
of Allah and that is the natural Sunnah
of Allah
so a lot of times I think we as
individuals will often forget this
that we will go through struggles in our
lives things will be difficult things
are going to go up and down we're not
are going to go up and down we're no
going to understand why things happen
but a lot of times it's because Allah is
preparing us for greatness and we just
preparing us for greatness and we jus
don't realize that
the most inspiring thing about his life
is his journey with knowledge like
there's very few people in like the
history of the ummah that you read about
history of the ummah that you read abou
their lives and it inspires you like you
know what I want to dedicate my life to
seeking knowledge I'm wasting my time
doing everything else I just want to
seek knowledge
he began studying knowledge at the age
of 10.
he started issuing fatawa by the time he
was 18.
and he started teaching publicly by the
time he was 21. like I want you to think
about this right starts intelligent
about this right starts intelligen
knowledge at the age of 10 and by the
age of 18 like within eight years of his
life he's become so qualified that he
starts giving fatawah now as we
discussed yesterday for those of you
that attended
was accredited by 70 or 90 of his
teachers that said we want you to teach
go out and give fatwa before he actually
started giving fatsoa meaning what level
he must have reached by the age of 18 in
order to have this recognition
subhanallah
but behind every you know great
but behind every you know grea
achievemen
someone's hand is always there right
someone's hand is always there righ
foreign
who was it
who was i
he narrates the story to his nephew he
says when I was six years old
my mother dressed me up in the nicest
my mother dressed me up in the nices
clothes that I had
she ties a turban around my head and she
says go and study with Arabia
and he specifically says she dressed me
up in the clothing of a scholar she
dressed me up in the clothing of a
scholar and she told me go and study
with Rabia
now here's something beautiful I mean
the first part is beautiful but she
gives him clear Direction
she says go and study from his
before you take from his knowledge go
and study from his lock before you take
from his knowledge
now in this story alone there's so many
profound lessons number one is I'll tied
into like modern day life you know in
this day and age people are dressed
their kids up for Halloween and you'll
ask young kids what do you want to be
and you know what type of codes they
have when they're playing their games
and it's very interesting to see I can't
and it's very interesting to see I can'
remember the official statistic but the
vast Maori majority of children that
vast Maori majority of children tha
ended up becoming successful in their
careers whether it was doctors Engineers
or Pilots or whatever it was
from a very young age they had
participated in those activities
pretending that they were those things
right so it's like a foretelling of
their future in their productivity in
the way that they dressed up and we see
this his mother dressed him up like that
this his mother dressed him up like tha
she's like dress up like a scholar and I
found this very profound that again Ty
this goes back to the point where are
our aspirations for scholarship and I
keep pushing this point not to make us
feel bad but to help us understand if we
want to survive as an ummah living as a
Muslim minority in a place like Canada
we need to revive homegrown scholarship
it needs to happen and up until we take
this seriously as a community as in
ummah Islam will suffer and will
struggle because we are going to
struggle with identity we're going to
struggle with applying the dean of Allah
in our own particular context so there
needs to be homegrown scholarship and
this is the first lesson of this that
this is the first lesson of this tha
you know prepare your children for it
you know prepare your children for i
number two statistics also show
that the level of religiosity is based
upon the religiosity of the mother and
if something actually learned two days
ago Abdullah and I we went to uh the
Beth zedic synagogue for an Interfaith
breakfast and they had a female Pastor
presenting who subhanallah on the onset
presenting who subhanallah on the onse
I was amazed by but at the ending of her
lecture I felt so sad for
and I'll share her story with you very
briefly because you're like what
briefly because you're like wha
happened so your stories is as follows
she is a PhD so she's a scholar in her
own right she's a pastor at her church
and she is a mother of two children so
these are like her her three job roles
her description
when she fell in love she fell in love
with a reformed Jewish individual
and he decided to get married
when the discussion came up what are you
going to do with your children
they decided we're going to let them
decide
now the biggest conflict that was going
to happen in her life was how do you
decide
you know the concept of I I don't know
how to explain in simpler terms but
how to explain in simpler terms bu
salvak religious exclusivity and what
salvak religious exclusivity and wha
this means is each religion has a point
this means is each religion has a poin
of view of who's going to agenda that's
what it's coming down to
and neither of these religions view each
other as going to Jannah so how are you
going to deal with that issue so the
whole lecture finishes and she
summarizes eventually that you know as
my children hit puberty I'm going to let
my children hit puberty I'm going to le
them decide so we gave them the
circumcision when they were born so that
circumcision when they were born so tha
was like the Jewish Heritage and we have
the baptism from the Christian Heritage
so as they hit puberty they can decide
so as the lecture finishes I was curious
I'm like okay let's put your children
aside how do you reconcilate yourself
so I go up to her all everyone's gone
it's just me and Abdullah that are
standing there and I asked her
so you as an individual like as a
Lutheran Pastor how do you reconcile
this fact that you know you're married
to someone who's from Jewish reform and
Christianity clearly says that it's only
you know Christian Christians that are
going to Paradise
so she says yes while that is the
official Lutheran Doctrine
my own belief is that there are multiple
paths to Paradise
and that's when I felt so sad for her
that this woman is a Christian Community
leader she has their PHD in Christiana
but then she opposes
based upon what her desire to get
based upon what her desire to ge
married and to have children
and that's when I felt So Satisfied like
and I kept thinking about what if there
was an Imam in the community that did
this like what would have happened to
that Imam like he would have been
ostracized you know we would have like
ruined him there's no way you're gonna
run the community I didn't do so right I
believe that would have been the right
believe that would have been the righ
thing that you can't sacrifice the
fundamentals of Akita which is like
there's consensus on for the sake of
your personal desires and see that even
though this is the official position of
my religion I choose to follow something
else and your community leader
so now the point being in her talk she
stared these to shared these statistics
that children they learn their faith
from their mother so depending on how
strong the mother is in their faith that
strong the mother is in their faith tha
is how the children will be brought up
as a general rule which is so important
as a general rule which is so importan
for all the brothers over here that are
looking to get married that when you
decide to get married
while the looks will be very appealing
while the wealth will be very appealing
while the lineage will be very appealing
while all these other circumstances will
be very appealing
don't be short-sighted
your long-term goal yes is to marry a
woman that you're attracted to is to
marry someone that you can live with and
that you're compatible with
but struggle hard strive hard to find
someone that has good Deen because your
children are going to be your greatest
children are going to be your greates
and if you invest in them by choosing
the right spouse
trust me you'll enjoy life much much
more life will be much much easier for
you and better for you so invest in that
you and better for you so invest in tha
and that is the second lesson we learned
that Imam Malik's you know influencer
was his mother and mothers have such an
important role in raising children to be
like that we live in a day and age where
there's so much pressure upon women to
do everything they have to be a mother
they have to be able to cook in clean
they have to be able to take care of the
house they have to be able to work they
have to be able to go and do the
groceries everything a woman is required
to do
and it has almost become shameful if a
woman says that I'm a stay-at-home mom
in fact they had to come up with a new
title I am a home maker right because
it's staying home Mom this is something
that's frowned upon you know we're
taking women a century back in time if
we say you know I am responsible for
taking care of children
and our Dean should not be belittled
like that in fact our Deen is the exact
like that in fact our Deen is the exac
opposite the most respectful position a
woman can have
is to be able to raise successful
children that is her honor that hers is
her is
and if she can do that and work at the
same time and do everything else
alhamdulillah but by no means should she
be sacrificing her children her Sada
kajaria her Deen for the life of this
world regardless of who criticizes her
regardless of who puts her down so this
is how the influence of Imam Allah
started
now his story of knowledge is also very
very profound
he had his a teacher by the name of IBN
harmos
and he was so intelligent as a young kid
he would keep dates in his sleep like he
used to wear a long garment and there
was like space over here and he used to
carry dates in his sleeve
so that when he would go to his
teacher's house ibrahamas
he would have young kids
and he would give these dates to young
kids to his kids and he would tell them
look I'm giving these you I'm giving
these dates to you but I need you to do
me a favor
if anyone knocks on the door and asks is
your dad available tell them he's busy
and he would keep the people outside
distracted by this and not being able to
access his teacher just so that he could
study with his teacher all the time and
I thought this was genius subhanallah
like he wanted undivided attention you
got it right his children because
they're the ones that answer the door
subhanallah number two in terms of his
dedication of waiting you know Imam
Allah he would sit and wait at his
teacher's door he wouldn't go and knock
he would just sit and wait
he would just sit and wai
and if the teacher sent someone to go
and see what's going on outside or
someone would go and get something from
outside and come back inside they would
see Imam Malik waiting and they would
tell even homos that look you know Malik
is here should we let him in what should
we do and this shows just a huge amount
we do and this shows just a huge amoun
of respect that he had for his teachers
that he didn't want to disturb them
right he would just wait patiently and
quietly till they would come out and
this story repeats itself with another
great teacher that he had nafia the
freed slave of Abdullah and his teeth
stays like story is even more profound
because Malik is a bit older now he's
about 14 15 years old and he waits at
about 14 15 years old and he waits a
the door of a nephea but as soon as
nafia is coming out he runs away why
would he do this because he didn't want
would he do this because he didn't wan
nafia to be bothered he didn't want him
to be upset so as soon as nephil comes
out nafia starts walking and Imam Malik
just pretends that he's walking in the
same direction he eventually catches up
with him and then he asks him the the
question that he would repeat what was
abdullah's opinion on such and such
matter
and he says I would ask him once and
then I would leave and I would repeat
then I would leave and I would repea
this several times now why would he
repeat this
three students asked him you know why
didn't you just keep asking and asking
and asking well he says nafia had a
temperament issue that if you ask too
many questions he would get upset and I
knew that Nafi was such a gold mine of
knowledge of Abdullah I couldn't afford
him getting upset with me now there's so
many profound lessons in this number one
the pharah said that Imam Malik had the
ability to read someone's temperament
ability to read someone's temperamen
right this person easily gets annoyed
let me not bother him which shows us
that teachers and Scholars will have
different personalities not everyone's
going to be a nice guy in fact inshallah
I hope one day we get to study the life
of an Amish used to release wild dogs
and his students it is like you lead
read history I'll tell you very quickly
in order to re like steer steady with
he would tell his students come to my
house in the middle of the night
house in the middle of the nigh
and the very first time they would come
to his house in the middle of the night
to his house in the middle of the nigh
and as they're coming in the middle of
night remember there's no electricity
here he would release wild dogs upon
them if they came back the next day he
would teach them if they didn't come
back the next day he's like they're not
back the next day he's like they're no
worthy of my knowledge that was how what
worthy of my knowledge that was how wha
life was like with some of these
teachers like these are great Scholars
of Hadith and you're like how could they
act like that but they had this
understanding of knowledge had to be
earned not everyone is ready for
knowledge so now same thing with nafia
like if you asked him too many questions
he would get upset but at the end of the
day this was the direct source of
knowledge from Abdullah you wanted to
know something this was the man who had
the access to it you want to know
something about um you would find it
something about um you would find i
from this man and that is where a lot of
Imam Malik's madhub was based upon nafia
so this is when uh Imam Allah is a 13 14
year old boy he's able to read people
underst able to understand how to treat
underst able to understand how to trea
people and this was purely a gift from
um Allah
on the day of Eid
on the day of Aid there was a third
teacher
he was like for those of you that
he was like for those of you tha
attended yesterday I mentioned that the
90s were the golden years right in the
90s of Hijra
um
as one of the great Scholars of Hadith
to be one of the main compilers of
Hadith when you look at the compilation
of Hadith and how did Hadith books come
to start
to star
was one of the main catalysts behind it
was one of the main catalysts behind i
he was one of the main catalysts behind
i
he reports that on the day of aid
I used to get so happy
now I want you to think about this we
get happy on the day of Eid we go eat we
go have fun we open gifts as young kids
you know I remember my eids I would look
forward to to seeing my dad and my
relatives each one's giving you five
dollars twenty dollars and it's like
even relatives you didn't see throughout
even relatives you didn't see throughou
the whole year hey how are you doing
evil Mark right just to get eating from
them that's what it was like
he says that Eid was such a phenomenal
day for me because I knew that was the
day everyone would abandon the scholars
no one would want to go and study on
that day so after the Eid prayer was
over I went to the house of IBN and I
waited outside till the the servant of
led to me in and I'll read the
conversation
he said let him in so I came inside and
then he said to me it doesn't seem like
you even had a chance to go to your
house before coming here I told him he
was right so even right after Salah he
didn't go home he went straight to his
house he asked him have you eaten
he's a young boy have you eaten what
he's a young boy have you eaten wha
young child doesn't love to eat on a day
of eat you know you're getting sweets he
said no he said then eat something then
I said this is not to what I need who is
this child subhanallah then what is it
this child subhanallah then what is i
that you want he said I want you to
relate knowledge to me so he said come
here then I took out my copy boards and
he related 40 Hadith to me I asked him
to relate to more but he said 40 is
enough for you to relate for you to
commit to memory I said indeed I have
already memorized them he then took my
copy boards from my hand and said relate
to them to me I related them all to him
then he returned to copy boards to me
and said come with me for you are one of
the vessels of knowledge
I want you to understand the story like
this man is clearly not a normal human
being but not not normal he's a
phenomenal human he's not your average
child subhanallah on the day of Eid
while everyone says
very Hadith someone's offering him free
food on the day of eat you know it's
going to be for now he's like that's not
going to be for now he's like that's no
what I came for I came to study starts
writing down these Hadith and the guy's
like listen 40 Hadith is enough now I
want you to understand what 40 Hadith
means 40 Hadith is not just the text it
means 40 Hadith is not just the text i
is the is not as well and each Hadith
writing it down with the Isla no
exaggeration you're looking at like five
to ten minutes maybe even more than that
to ten minutes maybe even more than tha
if you're adding an explanation and
talking about narrators 30 40 minutes
easily go about on each Hadith foreign
so not only did he write all these down
he's meticulously paying attention and
doing everything but as he's writing it
doing everything but as he's writing i
down he's able to memorize these things
he's like I can't believe this like who
who is this young kid so he tests him
he's like it's not possible and once he
tests him he realizes that subhanallah
this isn't a normal human being that
this isn't a normal human being tha
Allah Was preparing him for greatness at
Allah Was preparing him for greatness a
that time Allah Was preparing him for
greatness at that time
now I want to talk a little bit about
now I want to talk a little bit abou
Imam Malik's demeanor and by demeanor
his stature and what he looked like when
you read the biography of Imam Malik all
these incidents with his stories of him
waiting outside of his teachers how is
this there's one reoccurring theme that
this there's one reoccurring theme tha
every time a servant would open up the
door
and the master would ask who is outside
they would respond the white guy is
outside
which makes us understand
was extremely white in his complexion in
fact some of the generations even talk
about him having blonde hair and blue
eyes and him being very tall and like a
very solid phrase that this is who he
was and that he just naturally stuck out
was and that he just naturally stuck ou
that he wasn't like the average person
living of Medina Allah had made him
different even physically on top of that
different even physically on top of tha
as we mentioned that Imam Malik came
from a very very wealthy family his
brother another was a merchant anyway
talks about how when he was growing up
people would say that is Malik Nader's
brother
everyone started saying there is another
Malik's brother so a lot of his wealth
came from his brother as well but a lot
came from his brother as well but a lo
of it was inherited in fact they
mentioned that Imam Malik's ancestry
came from Kings that he had ancestors
who were Kings where he inherited the
money from now I just want to read a
passage from the very first talaka that
passage from the very first talaka tha
we had just to put this into perspective
he narrates that an inventory was taken
of his estate upon his death and amongst
of his estate upon his death and amongs
the things they found were 500 pairs of
sandals 100 turbines
2629 gold coins and a thousand pieces of
silver now Malik's concluding remarks
that we I want you to pay attention to
this he said he was one of those who was
prosperous dignified and a great scholar
he was modest but well-dressed he had
servants and a luxury home the
prosperity he was blessed with was
visible he had an elevated status in
what matters for this world and the next
what matters for this world and the nex
he accepted gifts ate good food and
performed righteous Deeds
was sort of the exception to the rule
that a lot of times when people attain
wealth they forget Allah
used the words that he had to get closer
to Allah and this shows us that having
wealth in Islam if used properly is not
wealth in Islam if used properly is no
a bad thing and if Allah has blessed you
with wealth you shouldn't hide it in
fact has a beautiful quote he was asked
about wearing wool clothing he said the
only time that this is good for is in
the cold weather that is the only time
you should wearing it a man's rule the
geosity should not be seen by the cause
that he wears meaning people should not
that he wears meaning people should no
dressed in torn up clothing and you know
wrinkled clothing and claim this as a
sign of asceticism
truerceticism is you staying away from
the doubtful matters you know I'm going
to tie this back to Imam of his student
Allah was asked a question he was told
will you not write for us a book in Azad
in asceticism
and he responded by saying I've already
written for you a book
who can explain this statement for me is
business transactions
he was asked will you not write for me a
book in asceticism he says I've already
written for your book in asceticism uh
in blue and business transactions
who's going to explain this to me
go ahead
when he said he already wrote a book in
business transactions in business you
need to be you need to look respectfully
when you're
when you're in the business and in your
life but how about in in the dealings
what should you be like in your dealings
truthful and honest and dignified and
that's what we were trying to get at he
said when they've already written for
your book in that the place where there
are the most doubtful matters is in
business transactions in business
transactions it is very easy for a
person to fall into doubtful matters so
he says I've already written for you a
book in boyo meaning that I've taught
book in boyo meaning that I've taugh
you how to stay away from those doubtful
matters if you're able to do that then
that is asceticism asceticism is not
that is asceticism asceticism is no
staying away from the work that Allah
has provided for you asceticism is to
stay away from the doubtful matters when
they're presented in front of you that
they're presented in front of you tha
is what true zohoid is and this is
portrays over here that there's nothing
wrong with uh having wealth
now
[Music]
this leads us into you know uh another
discussion which is
he had dedicated his life to knowledge
if you remember remember he was known
for a lot of Salah he was known for a
lot of Quran
Allah he was just known for seeking
knowledge and in fact there was uh I
don't know what words to call it other
than he was a renowned Sufi by the name
of Abdullah
and he kept on telling Imam Malik you
know what you should abandon the people
just live by yourself live an isolated
life dedicate it your life to ibada
don't focus on teaching so much
he was very respectful he would hear
what he had would have to say
up until a Time came where this man you
know he he sort of took it too far it's
like you can only keep hearing the same
advice so many times till you disagree
and I want you to understand what Imam
Malik says he says Allah has distributed
specializations just like he has
distributed risk some people are blessed
to excel in prayer or in charity to a
level that they do not attain in fasting
others are blessed to strive with their
wealth and strength for Islam but do not
wealth and strength for Islam but do no
attain the same level in prayer likewise
the acquisition or dissemination of
religious knowledge is one of the most
religious knowledge is one of the mos
virtuous of all activities and I'm
pleased with what Allah has facilitated
for me in this regard I do not think
that my involvements are less blessed
than yours and I expect that both of us
are upon a lot of good it is everyone's
duty to be content with what Allah has
apportioned for them and I wish you
peace
this response is just profound
subhanallah on so many levels number one
his response is so eloquent he never
says stop bothering me leave me alone
you're misguided you're astray none of
tha
but he tells him in such a polite way
that look just like Allah distributes
his risk he distributes specializations
meaning specializations in your path to
Jannah
so not everyone is going to have the
same path to Jannah some people will
naturally excel in sadaqah some people
will naturally excel in Salah some
people will naturally excel in fasting
and Imam Malik says some people will
excel in religious Knowledge Learning it
excel in religious Knowledge Learning i
and teaching it and I am pleased with
what Allah has given me and I'm sure
that both of us are upon good meaning
I'm not saying that I'm better than you
nor should you consider yourself better
than me these are just two individual
paths
but this last part is the most profound
thing
that each person should be content
that each person should be conten
with that which has been apportioned to
them this is so profound because I find
often particularly in our religious
Journeys we're heavily influenced by the
people around us we see someone praying
a lot of Salah and you're like yes this
is what I need to do we see someone
reading a lot of Quran this is what I
need to do something this is what I need
to do
you need to look at yourself and
understand what Allah has given you and
what Allah has made easy for you and
then Excel and then strive in that thing
that is your path to Jannah and for me
this is very very profound
so this is just a simple advice to look
at the things that Allah has made for
easy for you and understand that is your
past agenda don't get distracted by the
things if you can do other things that's
great alhamdulillah
but when it comes to your focus then
focus in your life and Excel at it if
Allah has made Salah easy for you
continue praying as much as you can
easy for you continue doing that if it
easy for you continue doing that if i
is helping people continue doing that
is helping people continue doing tha
and if it is religious knowledge
continue doing that
continue doing tha
focus on your specialization and this
was something very very profound
Life Goes On
obviously
he becomes more of an authority and this
naturally happens over time
so when Imam Malik as he gets older
people want to come and study with him
Allah he wouldn't have a problem turning
people away he wouldn't have a problem
turning people away some of these people
he would turn away because he didn't see
the intellectual capacity to learn and
to teach other people he would turn away
because Imam Malik didn't see that they
presented themselves as Scholars other
people Allah turned away because he
realized that it wasn't their
specialization that Allah had created
them for something else
so continue on this point of following
that which Allah has made easy for you
Imam Malik talks about who are the
people that you should disseminate
knowledge upon meaning who are the
people that you should choose to have as
your students and he gave three criteria
and I'm going to read them out to you
historically three three qualities were
considered before a student would be
issued his uh his diploma for giving
fatwa the first was his age a student
fatwa the first was his age a studen
would have to be at an age where their
Mentor faculties were fully mature this
was not firmly fixed some Scholars
regarded it as 17 as a minimum age
others said 20. there are even those
that saw 50 as a minimal age for being
authorized to issue legal verdicts so
they would have to show maturity so this
could happen at a young age it could
happen older age number two
the second quality was knowledge
regardless of the student's age it was
mandatory for the student to have
Mastery of the Quran Mastery of the
Sunnah and tools of legal reasoning and
this again needs to be brought back over
here and I want to emphasize this fact
here and I want to emphasize this fac
that we live in an age where people love
knowledge and they will go online they
will memorize islamqa.com they'll watch
a ton of lectures on YouTube and they
want to get into a position to teach and
they want to be a source of knowledge
is reminding us that this journey
requires a strong Foundation that strong
Foundation is familiarity with the Quran
and this continues till this day that
and this continues till this day tha
when you go to the prophet's Masjid and
you want to attend the advanced Hadith
the teachers will ask you however you
memorize the Quran if you haven't
memorize the Quran if you haven'
memorized the Quran they will tell you
go and memorize the Quran first and then
come back to my halaka they will refuse
to teach you so the Quran is the basis
of our deed number two after we
familiarize yourself with the Quran you
go to the Hadith of the prophet
go to the Hadith of the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam and then you
master that and then after we memorize
the Hadith
then they teach you legal reasoning they
teach you right in other words so this
will come after that and this is a
foundation
Allah didn't have the foundation he
wouldn't teach them at that time and the
third quality was balanced judgment and
this is something that's so subjective
and I believe this is something valuable
as well
there are a lot of problems that happen
in communities due to religious
leadership and by what I mean are the
imams and the scholars of the community
and if the scholars they have you know
they may be mature Olden age they may
have the foundation of the Quran and of
Hadith and of legal reasoning but if
they don't have maturity and they don't
they don't have maturity and they don'
have wisdom they will actually cause
more problems in the community than
benefit them
and that is why again I really love this
section about Imam Malik's life he's
teaching us
you have to be careful of who you teach
it to because if you put knowledge in
the hands of someone that does not have
wisdom they will destroy communities and
we've seen this so many times I mean not
we've seen this so many times I mean no
just here in North America but even in
the Middle East when you look at certain
Scholars that they just focused all of
their time on discrediting other duat
their time on discrediting other dua
that anyhalaka you went to there
speaking about that speaker they're
speaking of this speaker they're
speaking about this speaker and none of
it is about bringing the people closer
to Allah none of it is about none of it
to Allah none of it is about none of i
is about Syrah none of it is it's always
about discrediting people and they're
Justified oh we're protecting the people
from innovation
and this is a lack of maturity a lack of
wisdom and a lack of balance and that is
why again Imam Malik's point was so
profound
now
I'll share one beautiful quote with you
Imam Malik's nephew again he says that
Imam Malik's nephew again he says tha
he told me this knowledge is our
religion so take care of whom you take
your religion from I met 70 men under
the pillars of this mosque who related
things from the words of Allah's
messenger but I did not take anything
from them if any of them were given the
trust of public treasury he would have
fulfilled that trust perfectly the
reason I did not take from them is that
reason I did not take from them is tha
they were not properly qualified in this
field whereas ibno shihad came to us in
his Youth and we used to crowd around
his door
is talking about the signs of who do you
take your religious education from and
he says that there were over 70 people
that used to teach in the Masjid of the
Prophet sallallahu alaihi wasallam but I
wouldn't take Knowledge from them why
was it because they were not trustworthy
people no he says that if these people
were appointed over the public Treasury
I would have you know loved that it
I would have you know loved that i
would have been perfect and they
wouldn't have done anything wrong
but they were not specialists in their
field and thus I did not take from them
came into Medina we used a crowd around
his door while he was young meaning that
his door while he was young meaning tha
he was you know easily relatable to and
he was a specialist in his field and I
find this very profound as well there
are a lot of the times when we take
knowledge when we look at whatever we do
in life do we become specialists in our
field
there's a book that I read or not I
didn't read the book completely but a
personal book that I read uh called
outliers by Malcolm Gladwell has anyone
read that book outliers Malcolm Gladwell
you know what I'm talking about there's
a profound section in that book where he
talks about becoming an expert in your
field
and he says in order to become an expert
and he says in order to become an exper
in your field you need to spend ten
thousand hours reading in that field and
if you were to do that you were
guaranteed be in the five top five
percent of that field
so I thought to myself does this apply
to religious knowledge
and it's actually true that each person
like bukhari Muslim
they read hours upon hours upon hours in
Hadith and that's Allah made them
specialists in their field and I think
that's something that's being lost in
this day and age we want to be a jack of
all trades we want to know a little bit
all trades we want to know a little bi
of everything we don't want to become
Specialists and I want you to provide
you know apply this in your professional
lives as well whether you're in
engineering accounting doctor whatever
it is how specialized are you in your
own field right aim for excellence aim
for your son in your field if that is
the field you have chosen their lives
facilitated for you aim to excel at it
facilitated for you aim to excel at i
specialize in it and that is how you
will become you know uh someone that has
something to offer to the ummah
now the things that stuck out about Imam
Allah was his courage so we said that
Allah was his courage so we said tha
Imam Malik was of a big strong stature
but this heavily influenced his ability
to be courageous as well no one messed
with imamatic so we have multiple times
where the Khalifa is coming to Medina
was coming to Al Madina and the Khalifa
tells him look Malik I want you to
accompany me while I'm in Medina
wherever I'm going just keep me company
so he sends him three thousand Dirhams
you know multiple trays of gold coins
and they Khalifa finally arrives to Imam
Malik's house and he's like I sent you
this letter did you get it do you get
this letter did you get it do you ge
the gold coins any my Medics look I got
the gold coins any my Medics look I go
the gold coins I got the letter but I'm
not keeping company here's your gold
coins I wish you a nice day and you just
coins I wish you a nice day and you jus
let him be subhanallah and this you know
Imam Allah he had the audacity to do
that he's like I'm a scholar of Islam
I'm not your servant that's just gonna
you know keep you entertained while
you're visiting Medina in another
incident another Khalifa wanted his
children to come and learn from Malik so
he summons Imam Malik Imam Malik is kind
enough to respond he comes to the
Khalifa's house
the Khalifa says read to my children
and Imam Malik says this has not been
our tradition you know it is the
students that come to the teacher to
learn
so he says I will send them to your
house so Imam Ali goes home the story
his two sons come to Imam Malik's house
they come in but they're completely
misbehaving they just be acting like
Rowdy spoiled brats so Malik refuses to
teach them
he comes to the Imam Malik's house and
he says you told me to send my children
to you I said them to you but you didn't
to you I said them to you but you didn'
teach them
he says that people have to be worthy of
seeking knowledge when you send
Hooligans to my house I'm not going to
teach them teach them to behave and come
back
so the Khalifa sends a tutor with his
two sons to go and study with Malik the
students come with their tutor the world
behave now the tutors keeping them in
check and the tutor asked Imam manic
read to the children
and Malik says have you learned nothing
ye
that it is the students that learned
read to the teacher and the teacher
corrects them not vice versa and they
are again you know excused and they
leave again the Khalifa was like what's
going on this is like time number four
when will you teach my children
look our tradition is that the students
read to the teacher and he mentions his
lineage he says
all of these people their students used
to read to them and not vice versa this
is Medina there is culture there is
tradition and you live by that tradition
and then he tells us to his children
start reading tamalic and then Malik
started correcting them so Malik was a
no-nonsense guy he did not mess around
and you know he had the courage and the
audacity to stand up to people now one
of the incidents
that this really sticks out in and this
is like a contentious issue of the Yusuf
he was Khalifa during the time of Imam
Malik and he was the same Khalifa that
Malik and he was the same Khalifa tha
killed so many of the sahaba of the
Republic
that if I had the ability to I would
rebuild the Kaaba having one door to the
East and one door to the West being put
East and one door to the West being pu
on the original Foundation of Ibrahim
okay so this is what he's saying now in
the conflict that happened with Yusuf
and Abdullah as you eventually learn
Abdullah was crucified in Makkah and he
was left as an example now one of the
conflicts that happened is that Abdullah
he took it upon himself to reconstruct
he took it upon himself to reconstruc
the Kaaba and he reconstructed on the
original Foundation but he didn't put
original Foundation but he didn't pu
the two doors that the prophet saws
mentioned so the Yusuf after he has
gained control again he says you know
what I'm going to do it now as the
prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam wanted
it I'm going to put those doors
he
says don't do that
says don't do tha
who can tell me why why would Imam Malik
stop the Khalifa from implementing
Hadith of the Prophet salallahu alaihi
wasallam something at the prophet
wasallam something at the prophe
sallallahu alaihi wanted
go ahead
very good he didn't want the Kaaba to
lose its reverence he had sanctity it's
in its sacredness that if the Khalifa
keeps rebuilding it it's good to served
a president
a presiden
that every Khalifa that comes into Power
he's going to be like okay let me
reconstruct the Kaaba and this will be
my legacy and interesting enough that's
what you're seeing right now you look at
what you're seeing right now you look a
the expansion of Medina
this is like each King's Legacy you know
it I don't even want to get into the
politics of it but it was like a four
Talent prophecy of Imam Malik that the
Haram is going to become a play thing
for the people and that is why he
prevented the Khalifa from doing so and
this shows us that there are certain
times where even though you have a
literal Hadith that's saying something
in the odd occasion it is okay to go
against it and even as a scholar if
there is a wisdom behind it related to
public interest you can go against it
public interest you can go against i
this leads off from our discussion
yesterday when you talk about this is
implemented it now we're going to get to
towards the ending of the life of Imam
Allah
was a scholar of the highest caliber
extremely good looking guy
very rich comes from a very good family
and he is the man that all the people
are seeking Knowledge from
what do you think is going to end up
happening and this is where a lot of the
times
people do not understand the human
aspect of religious knowledge
I remember when I first went to Medina
one of the very first books we studied
was
the Book of Knowledge
and in This Book of Knowledge
he says that the people that are most
he says that the people that are mos
severely affected by jealousy
are the scholars and the reciters of the
Quran
and very early on I couldn't understand
that I understood that if you attained
religious knowledge you have to be a
very righteous person you would fight
very righteous person you would figh
off that jealousy how could jealousy
affect your actions right like what is
the How Could You reconcile knowledge
with jealousy I I couldn't do it
with jealousy I I couldn't do i
but I only came to understand this fact
but I only came to understand this fac
like it really sunk in when I studied
the life of Imam al-bukhari on how one
of his teachers students or Sons got so
jealous of his father loving Imam
al-bukhari he spread a lie about him and
this one lie spread so quickly that it
this one lie spread so quickly that i
led to Imam bukhari's demise as a
scholar not in the sense that he lost
scholar not in the sense that he los
knowledge but credibility in the eyes of
the people
now same thing over here
he had an official fatwa which in our
day and age doesn't sound very unique
but for his time it was actually very
unique and that is if a man issues
divorce in a state of duress that palak
is not valid that divorce is not
is not valid that divorce is no
considered valid Imam Malik had a legal
president this was abdullah's opinion
and much later on other Scholars adopted
this opinion as well and it makes
complete sense anything that happens
under duress you know will not to be
accepted
now when Imam Malik relates this opinion
the evil
sick-hearted people what do they extract
sick-hearted people what do they extrac
from this
oh if you give allegiance to the Khalifa
under duress that they are that
under duress that they are tha
Allegiance is not valid
so these shall have been they send a
letter to the Khalifa or to his
ministers there's a difference between
who they sent it to
and as a result
and as a resul
no judgment no court case bring Imam
Malik
and they publicly Lush him they publicly
beat him they publicly hit him how hard
that Imam Malik is no longer able to put
that Imam Malik is no longer able to pu
his hands up for Salah and that is why
you know I I mean I'm not going to get
you know I I mean I'm not going to ge
into the issue but in the Malik there is
a very famous opinion that you pray with
your hands to your side that you know
this a lot of it might stem from this a
lot of it might stem from other opinions
I'm not going to get into that but he
ended up praying with his hands by his
side
as soon as he was finished being beaten
blood is pouring down his neck what did
he do
he goes to the Masjid
and they tell him you're in this state
you know why don't you go wash up and
clean up and you know you don't have to
come to the Masjid today it's fine it's
not a big deal
he says this was done one of his
teachers and this is what he did that
teachers and this is what he did tha
after he was beaten he went straight to
the Masjid as blood was coming down his
back and I wanted to follow the legacy
of my of my teacher and that is what he
ended up doing Allah
like this fitina it prolonged for a very
long time that he never got a chance to
defend himself and the Khalifa's people
kept on abusing him inciting the fact
kept on abusing him inciting the fac
that you know he was trying to cause
Fitness in the community now obviously
he didn't get involved in the politics
he never said anything against the
Khalifa and he never made this opinion
as well
but now that Imam Malik has been
released what do these do again
they find a student of Imam not a
student but someone that knows Imam
Malik very closely
we will give you a hundred Dinars 100
Dirhams go up to Imam Malik in privacy
and ask him if someone gives Bayer under
duress will that be our be valid or not
duress will that be our be valid or no
Imam Ali trusted this man this is
someone that Imam Malik had known for a
very long time
imama tells him that look if this person
gives bear under duress if he's being
forced to do so that Allegiance will not
forced to do so that Allegiance will no
be valid
round two of the beating and this time
it's even much much worse and this is
literally just beat into a pope he has
internal organ damage
internal organ Direction when you talk
about you know it's coming to the end of
his life's father like it's very sad
when it comes to the end of his life you
know I'm just going to jump to that part
know I'm just going to jump to that par
I'm just going to jump to that part
I'm just going to jump to that par
of Allah he died when he was 86 years
old
but for the last 25 years of his life he
had stopped praying in the Masjid in
fact he wouldn't even come for jummah
and it's such like a disheartening thing
to read I'm just going to read it uh for
you guys over here
describes this seclusion he says at
describes this seclusion he says a
first Malik would offer prayers in the
mosque and attend the Friday
congregation visit the sick and accept
congregation visit the sick and accep
people's invitations and fulfill
people's rights he went on like this for
a while then he stopped sitting in the
mosque he would get up and leave as soon
as the prayer was over
then he stopped visiting the sick and
attending funeral prayers but he would
still go to the next of kin and offer
his condolences then he stopped mixing
with people all together even to give
condolences or to observe neighborly
rights he stopped offering prayer at the
mosque even the Friday prayer
when people spoke to him about this he
would tell them not everyone is ready to
speak about their inner feelings
so people left it at that out of their
deep respect for him and Malik died in
this state
and this is like subhanallah when I
think about this again there's like this
reoccurring theme
of tests that people go through and
tests that actually end up destroying
people it's not Allah that if you look
at it I'm going to tie this in with the
life of Imam Allah
ended up dying right on the last in the
first day of Ramadan
it was narrated that he ended up making
Dua that oh Allah
Allah
as vast as this Earth is is become too
congested for me take me back to you
and even though there's a specific
Hadith in his own sahih that a man is
not allowed to ask for death but what he
should ask was oh Allah when it is best
should ask was oh Allah when it is bes
for me to die take me away at that time
that is the only thing you're allowed
asking for he still could not implement
asking for he still could not implemen
it because life had become too difficult
it because life had become too difficul
for him and the same thing you see over
here that Imam Ali clearly he went
here that Imam Ali clearly he wen
through emotional trauma he went through
some real really tough distress by what
some real really tough distress by wha
other individuals had done to him and
not only that clearly there was a sense
of Abandonment as well that towards the
ending of his life
you know he he just felt alone like
where were the people defending him why
was no one standing up for him why was
no one saying anything to protect him
and again that feeling of Abandonment
and again that feeling of Abandonmen
just clearly set on till this great Imam
of Islam is no longer attending July and
Salah and again it makes me think that
Salah and again it makes me think tha
for the vast majority of us who have
never been exposed to the story how
could a great Imam of Islam stop
attending jummah for the last 25 years
for his life
now there's multiple you know difference
of opinion as to what happened exactly
that how could a great Imam end up doing
this this is opinion number one that was
directly related to the trauma and
psychologically he was just wasn't
psychologically he was just wasn'
prepared to it number two that as a
result of the physical beating his
internal organs were so badly damaged
that he couldn't control his his uh his
excretion and hand his urination and he
says I hate coming to the Masjid in that
says I hate coming to the Masjid in tha
state again you know what type of person
does this to another human being
especially a righteous man like that a
third opinion states that along with
this at that time the great grandson
he revolted against the Khalifa and Imam
I didn't want to be questioned about
I didn't want to be questioned abou
this fitna so he had stopped coming to
the Masjid at that time and the fourth
thing that is reported about it again to
give the benefit of the doubt that so
much evil and Corruption had spread that
much evil and Corruption had spread tha
Imam Malik Rahim Allah didn't want to
see evil in the Masjid of the prophet
see evil in the Masjid of the prophe
salallahu alaihi wasallam and not be
able to speak out against it now why
would hematic be afraid to speak out
would hematic be afraid to speak ou
against it
against i
because he was so severely traumatized
from the first time when he didn't do
anything wrong then imagine now that he
does do something he does create uproar
and he does do something that could be
contentious what would happen to him
then
so these are multiple opinions but a lot
so these are multiple opinions but a lo
of them tie back down to how he was
treated as a human being
now with all of this even though Imam
Allah didn't end up going to the Masjid
anymore and inshallah we you know we
make excuses for him that he's above the
age of 60 he's old in age that perhaps
he's not even capable of doing that
he's not even capable of doing tha
anymore
has excused him of this it is hoped that
has excused him of this it is hoped tha
that is what the case is
his abandonment of Salah in the Masjid
did not lead him to lose to him losing
his righteousness and this is itself is
such a profound thing
and there's two clear examples of this
his sister was asked that you know Malik
doesn't come out to the Masjid anymore
what does he spend his time with
and she says that for the last years or
so that he's been in the house I've
never seen him in the house except that
never seen him in the house except tha
he's engaged in the Quran he's not doing
anything else except the Quran
now what is a sign
that Allah
had forgiven him if in the first place
there's something to forgive him
that is almost unanimous consensus
that as Imam Malik was dying people
gathered around him
and his very last words as he was
leaving
Allah passed away
testifying is Oneness for Allah
was his final messenger implementing the
Hadith of the prophet sallallahu alaihi
wasallam that he himself narrates
that whoever's Last Words
is guaranteed Paradise
and this is such like a
paradoxical thing that how could a man
leave off Juma praying in the Masjid
gives him this great and this is why you
know again I can't emphasize enough for
those of us that are still going through
a spiritual journey trying to find out
a spiritual journey trying to find ou
righteousness trying to find a
religiosity we might be falling into
sins some of them major
coffee
don't let that get you down
because at the end of the day you may
have done this crime you may have done
this sin
but where you are is not as relevant as
to where you end up meaning how you pass
away in this world
and this is such a huge lesson upon
Allah that we often reflect we don't
Allah that we often reflect we don'
reflect enough how are we going to pass
away from this world that even when you
think about you know this incident that
think about you know this incident tha
happened in Quebec as heinous and is
atrocious as it was one perspective that
atrocious as it was one perspective tha
the Muslims did not have on this is to
be happy for those deceased why
because they had finished playing Salat
because they had finished playing Sala
Alisha in the Masjid they're praying the
Sunnah and they're with their prayers
and that is how they passed away
and these individuals when they're
raised on the day of judgment how are
they raised
praying Salah to Allah
what more could you ask for
what more could you ask for subhanallah
and this perspective was completely lost
and this perspective was completely los
but yes we feel sad to what's happening
to our society to our community that
to our society to our community tha
bigotry and racism has now become
normalized and people are acting violent
normalized and people are acting violen
upon it
upon i
but don't forget to Rejoice over their
martyrdom don't forget to Rejoice over
the righteous death because perhaps they
have achieved something that we will
never be able to achieve
so same thing with Imam Malik Rahim
Allah that you'll notice that the vast
Allah that you'll notice that the vas
majority of people don't mention this
about the ending of Imam Malik's life
because his life was filled with such
greatness and such righteousness and
such piety that they don't want his
legacy to be tainted but I think this is
a flaw in the way we relate our history
the taint in history is when we take
away the humanness of our history
were human
the great imams of Islam were human and
they weren't expected to be perfect they
weren't expected to be saved from from
normal day-to-day life
and they could still Excel they could
still be these great individuals and
still be human and that's what needs to
be brought back they aren't superheroes
that are you know beyond the realm of
this world they were human beings that
this world they were human beings tha
were the highest epitome in caliber of
Being Human
and even with the flaws and even with
their mistakes they're still going to be
getting imams and they still have a hard
work in Islam and Allah still elevated
their status by giving Imam Allah
such a noble death
that is how he passed away and he passed
away in the year 179
to knowledge was very very great in fact
to knowledge was very very great in fac
the first major collection of Hadith was
written by Imam Malik Imam Allah he says
about this book that I do not know of
any book authored by mankind
that is of the highest of caliber other
than the and obviously this was before
the time of bukhari and Muslim from the
legacy of Imam Malik is that it was an
inspiration for the likes of bukhari and
Muslim to compile their books
was the inspiration behind it that if he
could do it the other imams could do it
could do it the other imams could do i
as well
showed the highest level of sincerity
that when the Khalifa wanted to make the
Mota the official Manual of the khilafa
of the of the ummah he refused to do
that he said that my book is just one of
many books and people have learned their
opinions already and it's not befitting
that my book become the manual yet Allah
made it so that even though it didn't
made it so that even though it didn'
become the manual his legacy was so
great that inspired not only the other
collectors of Hadith but even you know
the students of silk like the greatest
the students of silk like the greates
one of the greatest books you know uh it
one of the greatest books you know uh i
is a direct compilation of Malik's
opinions and this book has gone on till
this day to be explained in numerous
volumes
we studied yesterday
he had a genuine concern and love for
the people that make the religion as
relevant and as easy for them as
possible to implement and this was the
Legacy that Imam Malik Allah Left Behind
Allah have mercy upon him and forgive
him for his sins
foreign
each other if you guys uh